CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Arco is developed as a workspace so Rust crates, the Python-facing API surface,
and tooling can evolve together. Before opening a PR, sync your branch with the
latest `main` so manifests, docs, and active work stay aligned.

## Development workflow

Use workspace `just` targets as the default contributor entry point:

```bash
just fmt
just clippy
just check
```

Treat clippy and compiler warnings as errors and fix them immediately.

For a full local gate before PR creation:

```bash
just ci
```

For Python commands, use `uv` consistently:

```bash
uv run pytest
```

If you touch Python bindings or Python test harnesses, keep execution under
`uv run` so environments and dependency resolution stay reproducible.

## GitHub automation

The repository ships GitHub Actions for package validation and release:

- `CI` runs install/import smoke tests for built wheels across Python 3.10-3.13,
  validates source-distribution installation, and runs docs doctests.
- `Release and Publish` runs `release-please` automatically on `main`; when a
  release is created it builds wheels/sdist, uploads those artifacts to the
  GitHub Release, and publishes to PyPI.
- Commits that touch `crates/**` now participate in release bump detection and
  are linked to `bindings/python`, so crate-side `feat:`/`fix:` changes also
  advance the published Python package version.
- Shared package smoke logic lives in `scripts/python_package_smoke.py`.

## Testing

Use targeted tests first, then broaden based on risk:

- Run tests for the crates and modules you changed.
- Add regression tests for every bug fix.
- Prefer realistic unit and end-to-end coverage over mock-heavy tests.
- When touching optimization plumbing, include cases that exercise memory
  behavior and hot paths.
- For benchmark-sensitive changes, gate regressions against a baseline artifact:
  `just bench-gate <baseline.jsonl> <candidate.jsonl> <duration_pct> <memory_pct>`.

Suggested baseline command:

```bash
just test
```

And when Python tests are present:

```bash
uv run pytest
```

Call out any skipped suites, feature flags, or known test gaps in the PR
description.

## Documentation updates

Documentation ships with behavior changes.

- If docs do not exist for a feature, the feature is not complete.
- Update `README.md` for user-facing behavior and onboarding changes.
- Update `AGENTS.md` when contributor workflow or engineering rules change.
- Keep architecture and design docs in sync if you introduce new docs
  directories (for example `docs/` or `rfd/`).

Include reproduction or validation steps in docs when they help others verify
the change quickly.

Commit message:

fix: Adding correct release please config. (#7)
* feat: Adding shared version between crates and python
* fix: release pelase configuration

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Arco is developed as a workspace so Rust crates, the Python-facing API surface,
and tooling can evolve together. Before opening a PR, sync your branch with the
latest `main` so manifests, docs, and active work stay aligned.

## Development workflow

Use workspace `just` targets as the default contributor entry point:

```bash
just fmt
just clippy
just check
```

Treat clippy and compiler warnings as errors and fix them immediately.

For a full local gate before PR creation:

```bash
just ci
```

For Python commands, use `uv` consistently:

```bash
uv run pytest
```

If you touch Python bindings or Python test harnesses, keep execution under
`uv run` so environments and dependency resolution stay reproducible.

## GitHub automation

The repository ships GitHub Actions for package validation and release:

- `CI` runs install/import smoke tests for built wheels across Python 3.10-3.13,
  validates source-distribution installation, and runs docs doctests.
- `Release and Publish` runs `release-please` automatically on `main`; when a
  release is created it builds wheels/sdist, uploads those artifacts to the
  GitHub Release, and publishes to PyPI.
- Release notes are generated in GitHub-style format via `release-please`
  (`changelog-type: github`).
- Commits that touch `crates/**` now participate in release bump detection and
  are linked to `bindings/python`, so crate-side `feat:`/`fix:` changes also
  advance the published Python package version.
- Release tags are component-based (`arco-python-vX.Y.Z` for Python); the
  crates component stays internal (`skip-github-release`) and is used to drive
  linked version bumps.
- Shared package smoke logic lives in `scripts/python_package_smoke.py`.

## Testing

Use targeted tests first, then broaden based on risk:

- Run tests for the crates and modules you changed.
- Add regression tests for every bug fix.
- Prefer realistic unit and end-to-end coverage over mock-heavy tests.
- When touching optimization plumbing, include cases that exercise memory
  behavior and hot paths.
- For benchmark-sensitive changes, gate regressions against a baseline artifact:
  `just bench-gate <baseline.jsonl> <candidate.jsonl> <duration_pct> <memory_pct>`.

Suggested baseline command:

```bash
just test
```

And when Python tests are present:

```bash
uv run pytest
```

Call out any skipped suites, feature flags, or known test gaps in the PR
description.

## Documentation updates

Documentation ships with behavior changes.

- If docs do not exist for a feature, the feature is not complete.
- Update `README.md` for user-facing behavior and onboarding changes.
- Update `AGENTS.md` when contributor workflow or engineering rules change.
- Keep architecture and design docs in sync if you introduce new docs
  directories (for example `docs/` or `rfd/`).

Include reproduction or validation steps in docs when they help others verify
the change quickly.
